# L2 RL Basics

These are my personal lecture notes for Georgia Tech's [Reinforcement Learning course (CS 7642, Spring 2024)](https://omscs.gatech.edu/cs-7642-reinforcement-learning) by Charles Isbell and Michael Littman. All images are taken from the course's lectures unless stated otherwise.

# References and further readings

- Littman, M. L. (1996). Algorithms for sequential decision-making. Brown University. (Chapter 2)
- Sutton, R. S. (1988). Learning to predict by the methods of temporal differences. Machine learning, 3, 9-44.
- Sutton, R. S., & Barto, A. G. (2018). Reinforcement learning: An introduction. MIT press.
        
    Chapters: 4.1-4.8, 5.1-5.4, 5.10, 6.1-6.7, 6.9, 8.1-8.5, 8.12-8.13

# Introduction

- RL is about the **interaction** between an **agent** and an **environment**
- The agent takes **actions** and the environment responds to the actions with **rewards** and new **states**
- RL is about learning a behavior that interacts with the environment:
    - Behavior structures:
        - **Plan**: fixed sequence of actions
        - **Conditional plan**: plan that includes "if" statements
        - **Stationary policy** (aka **universal plan**):
          - mapping from states to actions (like a conditional plan but has "if" at every state, so it's a mapping)
          - very large (know what to do in every state)
          - always optimal stationary policy

# Evaluating a policy

Calculate the values of state-action-reward sequences generated by a policy:
1. Map state transitions to immediate rewards (e.g. use reward function, R(s, a))
2. Truncate sequences according to horizon (e.g. T = 10 steps)
3. Summarize each sequence (i.e. compute the **return** for each sequence, e.g. discounted sum of rewards $\sum_{t=0}^T \gamma^t r_t$)
4. summarize over sequences (average: expected return)

# Evaluating a learner

- value of returned policy
- time to learn:
    - computational complexity
    - sample complexity
      - How much data it needs?
      - How much time does it take to interact with the environment to gather data?

